A candidate who really impresses me would be knowledgeable in:

Statistics: Confidence intervals, parameter estimation, p-value, hypothesis testing.
Common metrics: Engagement / retention rate, conversion, similar products / duplicates matching, how to measure them.
Useful cost functions: Log-loss, other entopy-based, DCG/NDCG, etc.
Basic machine learning: Classification / regression / ranking problems, overfitting, convex optimization, trees, ensembles, boosting, collaborative filtering, etc.
Tools: R / Python / Mathematica, Weka & similar. Code up something yourself would help too, Kaggle is very useful.
Mathematics and complexities: Eigenvectors, singular values, PCA, LDA, Gibbs Sampling, Information Bottleneck et. al.
Real-life numbers and intuition: Expected user behavior, reasonable ranges for user signup / retention rate, session length / count, registered / unregistered users, deep / top-level engagement, spam rate, complaint rate, ads efficiency.

Every field is different in how it applies the same base statistics. So, it is impossible to be ready on the spot for every type of interview, you will need to refine some parts based on the company, their product, their customers and the types of questions they are answering with data.
In my experience the things that are most important to most managers hiring Jr Data Scientists, but only relating to Statistics. You will be asked to code in either python, R or SAS as well as SQL….and there will be machine learning, data visualization questions and team work stuff too. Statistics is just a part of it.
As far as statistics go here is a good sample
If you are asked to compare two samples, know which metric is best. t-test (single our double sided, paired or not) chi-square. Know when and how to use each. Understand what the output means and how confidence intervals work.

If you are talking about regressions, both linear and logistic, know the difference between statistical significance and business utility. You may not be able to establish the contribution any one variable makes with statistical certainty, but if you are able to validate that the model overall is meaningfully predictive, you need to be able to talk about this coherently.

Know:
Accuracy
Sensitivity, True Positive Rate, Recall
Specificity, True Negative Rate
Precision
Understand the trade-offs for choosing sensitivity over precision in a model or vice versa.
These metrics can be as important to a business making decisions as P-values are so be able to talk about each of the pieces in the equation is important.

Be able to explain how a bootstrapped simulated distribution from your data relates to the original data and where the central limits theorem fits into the equation.
Understand EVERYTHING about linear regressions and how logistic regressions differ and be able to estimate error in each. Know how to decide at what probability you divide your given data between 1 and 0 classifications in your logistic models.
Be able to explain how dummy variables are created, what purpose they serve and how to create a matrix of them for categoricals.
Know each of the major distributions, and how they translate to various predictive models, curves and density functions.


Search Engine Metrics
What are the metrics to evaluate a search engine website?

SQL Sliding Window Aggregation
Given a Table with dateid, adid, impressions, partitioned by dateid, we need to calculate the total impression for an add did in last 28d days. The challenge here being that each partitions has close to 4 Billion rows and we want to avoid scanning 28 partitions every day. How will you optimize it so you don't have to scan 28 partitions every day.
SQL Sales Report
Given the follow table: CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS interview_sales AS SELECT stack(17, 'US', '01/01/2014', 5, 'US', '01/02/2014', 8, 'US', '01/02/2014', 5, 'US', '01/03/2014', 10, 'CA', '01/01/2014', 3, 'CA', '01/02/2014', 2, 'CA', '01/02/2014', 2, 'FR', '01/01/2014', 6, 'FR', '01/02/2014', 6, 'FR', '01/05/2014', 4, 'FR', '01/05/2014', 7, 'GB', '01/01/2014', 2, 'GB', '01/02/2014', 4, 'GB', '01/08/2014', 10, 'JP', '01/06/2014', 8, 'JP', '01/06/2014', 1, 'JP', '01/07/2014', 8) AS (country, date, sales_amt) FROM dim_one_row:growth; Return all country, date, and sales_amt where sales_amt >= 8 Return total sales_amt per country Return total sales_amt per country and day where the total sales_amt >= 10
Coupon Collector
There are 100 balls with #1 - #100 mark on each of them. Randomly choose one ball, and marked it with star. (without knowing the # on it.) Repeat this process for 100 times. If the balled picked already got star on it, put it back. And start the next process. After repeat this process for 100 times, get the ball with #1, what's the probability that it's not been marked with star? What's the number of times that you need to repeat this process if you want to get all the balls marked?
Trailing Zeros
Count how many trailing 0 in (100!)
Estimate Daily Number Of Fries Sold At McDonalds
Estimate daily number of fries sold at McDonalds
Logistic Regression Basic
Write down the formula for logistic regression. How to determine the coefficients given the data?
Linear Regression Basic
How do you diagnose your how your linear regression model fits the data?



1. What is the curse of higher dimensionality? What is the difference between density-sparse data and dimensionally-sparse data? What does "higher dimensionality" imply when applying textbook clustering algorithms developed for low dimension metric spaces to, say, numerical text analysis? Think of using cluster density to identify "good" clusters.
2. Probability space: How do you compare probabilities? Probability space is often referred to as a "vector space", is it? Define addition on this space? Is ds^2 = dp^2 a good metric on probability space? How would you construct a metric on probability space, so you can start doing complicated things like L2 norm etc.?
3. Regression: What is regression? What are the principal choices involved? What is linear about linear regression?
4. Logistic regression: Explain Logistic Regression to an economist, biologist or physical scientist. You can use the "formula" if you want. Motivate the "formula".
5. What does the score distribution for logistic regression look like? How would I track it?
6. How should logistic regression scores be calibrated? What are the dangers of over-fitting in calibration?
7. Certain third party data providers (DP1, DP2 ...) will identify cookie_ids as belonging to a specific demographic segment, say DP1_S1 = F35-44. To test the accuracy of this assignment, random samples of cookie_ids in these segments are measured against an industry standard source of "ground truth". This will yield data like "40% of the cookie_ids that DP1 identifies as in S1 are actually (according to "ground truth") in F35-44" and "30% of the cookie_ids that DP2 identifies as in S5 are actually (according to "ground truth") in F35-44". Given the above, what is the probability that a cookie_id that is in both DP1_S1 and DP2_S5 will be found to be in F35-44 according to the industry standard source of ground truth?
8. The x and y are two random variables and their standard errors are known. How can you calculate/estimate the standard error in f(x,y)? If you want, specifically, in f(x,y) = y/x. How would you do this if you had all the data (x_i, y_i)?
9. Why should the test and the control group be of the same size in an "A/B" test?


Key concepts include probability distributions, statistical significance, hypothesis testing, and regression.

Furthermore, machine learning requires understanding Bayesian thinking. Bayesian thinking is the process of updating beliefs as additional data is collected, and it's the engine behind many machine learning models.

Key concepts include conditional probability, priors and posteriors, and maximum likelihood.

Here are the 3 steps to learning the statistics and probability required for data science:

Core Statistics concepts
Descriptive statistics, distributions, hypothesis testing, and regression.

2. Bayesian Thinking
Conditional probability, priors, posteriors, and maximum likelihood.

3. Intro to Statistical Machine Learning
Learn basic machine concepts and how statistics fits in.
Usually Mathematics as a whole is asked in the interviews and not just the stats. It depends on the company you’ve applied for. If they are determined to do some predictive analysis, you might require a few other mathematical concepts as well before you take a seat in the interview.

Some of such concepts you might want to brush up:-

4. Linear Algebra for Data Science

Matrix Algebra and Eigen values.

5. Bayesian Thinking
Derivatives and Gradients.

6. Intro to Statistical Machine Learning
Implement a simple Neural network from Scratch
From my experience, the statistical questions that they ask for are not really difficult. A week of hard work can make you confident enough for the interview. You just need to clear out the theoretical concepts of the topics you might have studied earlier.







In more or less order of importance these are the statistics topics I would consider interesting or relevant in a Data Science interview.

Review the basic concept of a Normal Distribution.
Recognize a Poisson distribution when you see one.
Learn how to do some basic hypothesis tests. Explain p-values and type I and type II errors.
Explain what are confidence intervals and why they are important.
Explain what is statistical power.
Explain how you would do an A/B test.
Explain what is a bootstrap and how to use it.
Explain the basic concepts of bayesian inference: prior, posterior, etc.
Explain the Central Limit Theorem and what it means.
Explain ANOVA and Chi-Square.
Explain ARIMA.




Probability

Conditional probability
Independence
Random variables
Inferential Statistics (how to interpret these)

covariance
correlation
test statistics
p-values / power
confidence interval
analysis of variance (ANOVA)
Experiment Design / Sampling

Population, study population, sample. unit, attribute
Type of error in experiment
Randomization, treatment, control, blocking
population inference from sample data
sampling methods (i.e. bootstrap, with/out replacement)
missing values
sample standard deviation / error
Linear regression

Least square algorithm
Likelihood algorithm
Model assumptions
Model fitting
Model comparison
Model selection
Interactions
What is / How to handle heteroscedasticity problem
how to handle categorical variables
Logistic regression

parameter estimates
assumptions
categorical variables
interaction
Other models

general algorithm (trees, SVM, boosting, bagging)
how to implement them in XXX language
validation methods (i.e. cross-validation, X-fold)
Analytical

case study
given a situation, how will you design experiment, collect data, analyze and report result






Getting Started With Data Science And Recommender Systems
	Data Science Overview
	Reasons to use Data Science
	Project Lifecycle
	Data Acquirement
	Evaluation of Input Data
	Transforming Data
	Statistical and analytical methods to work with data
	Machine Learning basics
	Introduction to Recommender systems
	Apache Mahout Overview
Reasons To Use, Project Lifecycle
	What is Data Science?
	What Kind of Problems can you solve?
	Data Science Project Life Cycle
	Data Science-Basic Principles
	Data Acquisition
	Data Collection
	Understanding Data- Attributes in a Data, Different types of Variables
	Build the Variable type Hierarchy
	Two Dimensional Problem
	Co-relation b/w the Variables- explain using Paint Tool
	Outliers, Outlier Treatment
	Boxplot, How to Draw a Boxplot
Acquiring Data
	Discussion on Boxplot- also Explain
	Example to understand variable Distributions
	What is Percentile? – Example using Rstudio tool
	How do we identify outliers?
	How do we handle outliers?
	Outlier Treatment: Using Capping/Flooring General Method
	Distribution- What is Normal Distribution
	Why Normal Distribution is so popular
	Uniform Distribution
	Skewed Distribution
	Transformation

Machine Learning In Data Science
	Discussion about Box plot and Outlier
	Goal: Increase Profits of a Store
	Areas of increasing the efficiency
	Data Request
	Business Problem: To maximize shop Profits
	What are Interlinked variables
	What is Strategy
	Interaction b/w the Variables
	Univariate analysis
	Multivariate analysis
	Bivariate analysis
	Relation b/w Variables
	Standardize Variables
	What is Hypothesis?
	Interpret the Correlation
	Negative Correlation
	Machine Learning

Statistical And Analytical Methods Dealing With Data, Implementation Of Recommenders Using Apache Mahout And Transforming Data
	Correlation b/w Nominal Variables
	Contingency Table
	What is Expected Value?
	What is Mean?
	How Expected Value is differ from Mean
	Experiment – Controlled Experiment, Uncontrolled Experiment
	Degree of Freedom
	Dependency b/w Nominal Variable & Continuous Variable
	Linear Regression
	Extrapolation and Interpolation
	Univariate Analysis for Linear Regression
	Building Model for Linear Regression
	Pattern of Data means?
	Data Processing Operation
	What is sampling?
	Sampling Distribution
	Stratified Sampling Technique
	Disproportionate Sampling Technique
	Balanced Allocation-part of Disproportionate Sampling
	Systematic Sampling
	Cluster Sampling
	2 angels of Data Science-Statistical Learning, Machine Learning


Testing And Assessment, Production Deployment And More
	Multi variable analysis
	linear regration
	Simple linear regration
	Hypothesis testing
	Speculation vs. claim(Query)
	Sample
	Step to test your hypothesis
	performance measure
	Generate null hypothesis
	alternative hypothesis
	Testing the hypothesis
	Threshold value
	Hypothesis testing explanation by example
	Null Hypothesis
	Alternative Hypothesis
	Probability
	Histogram of mean value
	Revisit CHI-SQUARE independence test
	Correlation between Nominal Variable

Business Algorithms, Simple Approaches To Prediction, Building Model, Model Deployment
	Machine Learning
	Importance of Algorithms
	Supervised and Unsupervised Learning
	Various Algorithms on Business
	Simple approaches to Prediction
	Predict Algorithms
	Population data
	sampling
	Disproportionate Sampling
	Steps in Model Building
	Sample the data
	What is K?
	Training Data
	Test Data
	Validation data
	Model Building
	Find the accuracy
	Rules
	Iteration
	Deploy the model
	Linear regression

Getting Started With Segmentation Of Prediction And Analysis
	Clustering
	Cluster and Clustering with Example
	Data Points, Grouping Data Points
	Manual Profiling
	Horizontal & Vertical Slicing
	Clustering Algorithm
	Criteria for take into Consideration before doing Clustering
	Graphical Example
	Clustering & Classification: Exclusive Clustering, Overlapping Clustering, Hierarchy Clustering
	Simple Approaches to Prediction
	Different types of Distances: 1.Manhattan, 2.Euclidean, 3.Consine Similarity
	Clustering Algorithm in Mahout
	Probabilistic Clustering
	Pattern Learning
	Nearest Neighbor Prediction
	Nearest Neighbor Analysis

Integration Of R And Hadoop
	R introduction
	How R is typically used
	Features of R
	Introduction to Big data
	R+Hadoop
	Ways to connect with R and Hadoop
	Products
	Case Study
	Architecture
	Steps for Installing RIMPALA
	How to create IMPALA packages



  Steps of Data Exploration and Preparation
  Missing Value Treatment
  Why missing value treatment is required ?
  Why data has missing values?
  Which are the methods to treat missing value ?
  Techniques of Outlier Detection and Treatment
  What is an outlier?
  What are the types of outliers ?
  What are the causes of outliers ?
  What is the impact of outliers on dataset ?
  How to detect outlier ?
  How to remove outlier ?
  The Art of Feature Engineering
  What is Feature Engineering ?
  What is the process of Feature Engineering ?
  What is Variable Transformation ?
  When should we use variable transformation ?
  What are the common methods of variable transformation ?
  What is feature variable creation and its benefits ?
